docs/modules/ROOT/pages/tutorial/build-component.adoc, before:

= Build components using Gradle

== Build from console

The modelix project uses Gradle to build the individual components.
Simply call the following in the top level folder of a repository:

[source, sh]
--
./gradlew build   # mac/linux
--

or if you are on windows use:

[source, sh]
--
gradlew.bat build   # windows
--


== IntelliJ Idea

Wherever possible we use the latest https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/[IntelliJ IDEA] IDE to manage projects in our repositories.
Consequently, opening any repository with IntelliJ will also allow you to build and eventually xref:main/contribute.adoc[contribute].


== modelix Artifact Publication

At the moment most modelix artifacts are stored on the https://artifacts.itemis.cloud/#browse/browse:maven-mps:org%2Fmodelix[itemis nexus] with no access restriction.
As a consequence, when you build modelix or use modelix components via Gradle there is no repository access setup required.


== How to set up GitHub packages authentication

NOTE: This is optional when you want to obtain modelix artifacts from GitHub packages rather than the itemis nexus server.

Most packages are also published to GitHub packages for which a GithHub account and credentials are required.

To access GitHub packaged you need to specify your credentials.
First of all you will need to generate a https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-gradle-registry#authenticating-to-github-packages[personal access token] with access to GitHub Packages.
The project assumes that your username is available as the variable `gpr.user` and the token as `gpr.key`.
The easiest way to configure the credentials is copy the example below, paste it into the `gradle.properties` file in the repository and replace the values with your credentials:

[source]
----
gpr.user=<your GitHub login>
gpr.key=<your personal access token>
----

Gradle also supports https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/build_environment.html#sec:gradle_configuration_properties[other locations] for specifying these properties.

Commit message:

docs: specify module in xref in build-component.adoc

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/tutorial/build-component.adoc, after:

= Build components using Gradle

== Build from console

The modelix project uses Gradle to build the individual components.
Simply call the following in the top level folder of a repository:

[source, sh]
--
./gradlew build   # mac/linux
--

or if you are on windows use:

[source, sh]
--
gradlew.bat build   # windows
--


== IntelliJ Idea

Wherever possible we use the latest https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/[IntelliJ IDEA] IDE to manage projects in our repositories.
Consequently, opening any repository with IntelliJ will also allow you to build and eventually xref:ROOT:main/contribute.adoc[contribute].
// This file is included in /modelix.samples/docs/local/modules/samples/partials/short-description.adoc
// Therefore, we specify the module ROOT, so that the including works correctly.


== modelix Artifact Publication

At the moment most modelix artifacts are stored on the https://artifacts.itemis.cloud/#browse/browse:maven-mps:org%2Fmodelix[itemis nexus] with no access restriction.
As a consequence, when you build modelix or use modelix components via Gradle there is no repository access setup required.


== How to set up GitHub packages authentication

NOTE: This is optional when you want to obtain modelix artifacts from GitHub packages rather than the itemis nexus server.

Most packages are also published to GitHub packages for which a GithHub account and credentials are required.

To access GitHub packaged you need to specify your credentials.
First of all you will need to generate a https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-gradle-registry#authenticating-to-github-packages[personal access token] with access to GitHub Packages.
The project assumes that your username is available as the variable `gpr.user` and the token as `gpr.key`.
The easiest way to configure the credentials is copy the example below, paste it into the `gradle.properties` file in the repository and replace the values with your credentials:

[source]
----
gpr.user=<your GitHub login>
gpr.key=<your personal access token>
----

Gradle also supports https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/build_environment.html#sec:gradle_configuration_properties[other locations] for specifying these properties.
